=START=
	[1]SPEAKER_10: Comments, feel free to come up to the podium.
	[2]SPEAKER_10: Seeing none, were there any emailed comments, Mr. Carroll?
	[3]SPEAKER_07: There were a number.
	[4]SPEAKER_07: I am not going to go through all 46 and read the names.
	[5]SPEAKER_07: However, you received 36 letters with respect to Northwest Rail and the IGA conversation that you held earlier today.
	[6]SPEAKER_07: Five letters with respect to the ETOD policy you will consider later this evening.
	[7]SPEAKER_07: Three letters with respect to Title VI policy or the program update.
	[8]SPEAKER_07: You all will consider later this evening, one regarding the National Women's Soccer League proposed stadium that was discussed earlier here in person, and one regarding paratransit AOD program modifications.
	[9]SPEAKER_07: All will be appended to the transcript of this meeting.
	[10]SPEAKER_07: And just as a reminder to directors, a majority of these written public comments were submitted to the RTD.directors email group, which you all have access to and can see in real time.
	[11]SPEAKER_10: Thank you, Mr. Krull.
	[12]SPEAKER_10: With no other participants in the queue, we will now close public participation at this time.
	[13]SPEAKER_10: Moving on to our next item, external entities report.
	[14]SPEAKER_10: We have no external entity reports this month.
	[15]SPEAKER_10: Moving on to our next item, discussion items.
	[16]SPEAKER_10: We have one discussion item on the agenda this evening, which is a holdover from last week's operation safety and security committee meeting.
	[17]SPEAKER_10: It is the access on demand program modifications.
	[18]SPEAKER_10: I would like to offer the floor to GM CEO Deborah Johnson for some opening remarks before introducing Ms.
	[19]SPEAKER_10: Vallejo's.
	[20]SPEAKER_16: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair.
	[21]SPEAKER_16: Good afternoon or evening, board members, Deborah Johnson, general manager and chief executive officer.
	[22]SPEAKER_16: I am joined by Aaron Valleos, who serves as the Acting Assistant or Deputy Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations.
	[23]SPEAKER_16: And as indicated in your remarks, we are here referencing the previous agendized topic at the Operations Safety and Security Committee that we did not get to and wanted to have this conversation.
	[24]SPEAKER_16: with you all this evening, the intent of this presentation is to ground all board members in our paratransit programs, but more specifically, what we are seeking from this body is some guidance relative to access on demand, which is a supplemental premium service as relates to paratransit services, not the American with Disabilities Act of 1990, Complementary Paratransit Services.
	[25]SPEAKER_16: And in doing so, this conversation will help us guide our path forward.
	[26]SPEAKER_16: Specifically, I think what's notable for everybody to understand that the current paratransit contracts that we have for access on demand do sunset at the end of December.
	[27]SPEAKER_16: We have had conversations relative to modifications and absence of having some guidance
	[28]SPEAKER_16: We run the risk of not having any type of services and hence why it's so imperative is that we adhere to open and fair competition in order to do a solicitation relative to services.
	[29]SPEAKER_16: We have to have some guidance relative to the specifications that would be included in a solicitation for a request for proposal.
	[30]SPEAKER_16: So this is not for you to make a decision relative to where we are but provide guidance because what we anticipate doing with said guidance
	[31]SPEAKER_16: and bringing forward these scenarios after meeting with some board members, i.e.
	[32]SPEAKER_16: Chair Ruscha and Director Chandler, that are both on the Operation Safety and Security Committee, is to seek that direction so we can then go out to the customer segments and garner a better understanding.
	[33]SPEAKER_16: While we've heard comments here, we have taken part in a myriad of different public participation engagements
	[34]SPEAKER_16: and want to ensure that we are being good fiscal stewards, but also ensuring that we are providing the independence and ability for all aspects of our population to be able to travel and move about to and fro.
	[35]SPEAKER_16: So with that being said, I will yield the floor to Ms.
	[36]SPEAKER_16: Filaios to commence with the presentation.
	[37]SPEAKER_16: If we could have board office staff pull that up, that would be appreciated.
	[38]SPEAKER_16: Thank you.
	[39]SPEAKER_20: been a while since I've used these microphones.
	[40]SPEAKER_20: Good evening, everyone.
	[41]SPEAKER_20: As GMCEO Johnson said, I'm Erin Vallejoz, the acting deputy assistant general manager for bus operations.
	[42]SPEAKER_20: And we are just going to go over just kind of a quick overview.
	[43]SPEAKER_20: I think it's a lot of information that you've already seen, so we won't spend too much time on that.
	[44]SPEAKER_20: Just kind of hit on what the initial recommendation was that we made.
	[45]SPEAKER_20: talk about some revised recommendations and then again kind of open it up for discussion to kind of get an idea of some direction.
	[46]SPEAKER_10: Ms.
	[47]SPEAKER_10: Faleos before, could you speak a little closer to the microphone?
	[48]SPEAKER_20: Yes, I can.
	[49]SPEAKER_10: Thank you so much.
	[50]SPEAKER_20: Of course.
	[51]SPEAKER_20: Okay, so just to kind of highlight on this again as GM CEO Johnson said, Accessor Ride and Access on Demand are the two programs that we have.
	[52]SPEAKER_20: Accessor Ride is RTD's federally required ADA complimentary paratransit service.
	[53]SPEAKER_20: It does supplement our fixed route services.
	[54]SPEAKER_20: There is a fair payment required for these services and customers must meet the criteria set forth by the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 to be eligible.
	[55]SPEAKER_20: This is provided with all RTD branded access ride vehicles that are all 100 percent accessible.
	[56]SPEAKER_20: Then access on demand is our supplemental premium paratransit service.
	[57]SPEAKER_20: It is a curb-to-curb taxi and ride share service.
	[58]SPEAKER_20: It is available to current paratransit customers, so they must meet those eligibility criteria to qualify for access ride to then use access on demand.
	[59]SPEAKER_20: And as it stands today, RTD pays the first $25 of the trip and the remaining portion is paid by the customer.
	[60]SPEAKER_20: And again, ability today to take 60 total trips.
	[61]SPEAKER_20: So just some quick operating statistics.
	[62]SPEAKER_20: The annual operating cost in 2024 for excessive ride was just over 53 million and the customer trips were just over 500,000.
	[63]SPEAKER_20: And again, these are RTD owned vehicles and the contractors that operate this service have over 500 drivers mechanics and other staff.
	[64]SPEAKER_20: And then access on demand slash year it was about just over 15 3 million for the budget.
	[65]SPEAKER_20: Just over 685,000 trips and these are all provided by third party vehicles.
	[66]SPEAKER_20: So again, as we touched on, you must be eligible for access ride to also use access on demand.
	[67]SPEAKER_20: There is a process that customers must go through that determines if a customer has a disabling condition that would prevent them from using a regular fixed route service.
	[68]SPEAKER_20: There's an application process, a medical verification process, and then an in-person assessment that customers must complete.
	[69]SPEAKER_20: And there are a couple of different types of eligibility that a customer could receive.
	[70]SPEAKER_20: Unconditional means you can have access to the full service for up to four years.
	[71]SPEAKER_20: Temporary, you might have a condition that's going to improve recovering from surgery or something along those lines.
	[72]SPEAKER_20: And then conditional would be when there was something maybe you're sensitive to extreme hot or extreme cold.
	[73]SPEAKER_20: So you would be able to use it at those times, but not the full year.
	[74]SPEAKER_20: Okay, and as we have touched on, this is something that you've probably seen as well.
	[75]SPEAKER_20: We are continuing to see an increase in access on demand usage.
	[76]SPEAKER_20: This is through 2024, but we continue to see that access on demand trend line going up into the start of this year.
	[77]SPEAKER_20: And access ride, when you look at the trend line, while it is staying a little bit more stable, we are still seeing an increase in usage there as well.
	[78]SPEAKER_20: And as we've talked about, average monthly trips per customer, the majority of customers are falling into the category of taking up to 50 trips.
	[79]SPEAKER_20: That is about 90% of the customers when we lasted the analysis.
	[80]SPEAKER_20: And about 10% of the customers, again, fall into that 51 to 60 category.
	[81]SPEAKER_20: So now I'm going to just remind everyone of what our initial recommendations were back in 2024.
	[82]SPEAKER_20: As it stands today again quickly, there's a zero dollar base customer fare.
	[83]SPEAKER_20: The trip cap is 60 per month.
	[84]SPEAKER_20: Subsidy is up to $25 per trip.
	[85]SPEAKER_20: It is available within the entire district and it is available 24 seven.
	[86]SPEAKER_20: Back when we came to you in November of 2024, we had proposed making changes, and this involved having a $4.50 based customer fare, which would be $2.25 for our live eligible customers.
	[87]SPEAKER_20: We proposed a trip cap of 40 per month.
	[88]SPEAKER_20: The subsidy would go to $20 per trip, and then it was proposed to mirror both the current service area and the service hours.
	[89]SPEAKER_20: With this recommendation, there were going to be cost savings that the district would realize, and that was going to be about 5.8 million dollars.
	[90]SPEAKER_20: So instead of the projected yearly spend being a little bit over 15 million, we would go down to about 9.4.
	[91]SPEAKER_20: Okay, and as a result of some of the feedback and comments that we've heard, we did put together two additional revised scenarios.
	[92]SPEAKER_20: So scenario one is what I'm going to touch on first.
	[93]SPEAKER_20: So this has to do with an increased trip cap approach.
	[94]SPEAKER_20: So what we were proposing in this scenario is increasing the trip cap to 50 per month from the original 40 that was proposed.
	[95]SPEAKER_20: We are proposing as this is again as we've said a premium supplemental service a fair of $6.50 per trip.
	[96]SPEAKER_20: which would be $3.25 for our live customers.
	[97]SPEAKER_20: Then the remainder of the proposal does remain the same.
	[98]SPEAKER_20: We were still proposing a subsidy per trip of $20, and we are proposing mirroring the current service area and service hours as that of our accessoride program.
	[99]SPEAKER_20: With this program, we did see actually a little bit of the yearly impact would be a cost savings of about $6.1 million, bringing our total spend to about a little over $9.1.
	[100]SPEAKER_20: With the 50 trips, that does allow for customers to still have, given there's about 20 weekdays in a month,
	[101]SPEAKER_20: That does allow for customers to still travel to work, but then does allow for some ancillary trips throughout the month.
	[102]SPEAKER_20: And then another scenario that we had put together is the tiered approach that we have discussed.
	[103]SPEAKER_20: With this approach, we would still maintain a trip cap of up to 60 trips per month, which matches what we have currently.
	[104]SPEAKER_20: There would be a $4.50 based customer fare for up to 30 trips.
	[105]SPEAKER_20: $5.50 for 31 to 50 and $6.50 for 51 to 60.
	[106]SPEAKER_20: And the remainder of the recommendation would remain the same.
	[107]SPEAKER_20: With this program, as some people have noted, due to kind of the program structure and some of the manual aspects that exist with monitoring today, there would be an increase in staff oversight that would result in additional staff headcount.
	[108]SPEAKER_20: Again, that had been noted, but as it stands today, the program does require quite a bit of manual intervention.
	[109]SPEAKER_20: There is also, as someone mentioned, the customers would need to be keeping a little bit closer track of their trips, and that could lead to confusion.
	[110]SPEAKER_20: It is something a customer would have to be regularly thinking, where am I at for the month?
	[111]SPEAKER_20: Have I hit that 30 trips so they know what to expect for their costs?
	[112]SPEAKER_20: With this program, we would see some reductions of just over $5 million.
	[113]SPEAKER_20: So it is a little bit less than some of the other recommendations that we've put forth.
	[114]SPEAKER_20: And it would bring our projected yearly spend to about $10.28 million a year.
	[115]SPEAKER_20: And actually,
	[116]SPEAKER_20: So proposed next steps we are here as GM CEO Johnson has said to just kind of garner everyone's feedback and get some guidance on a path forward.
	[117]SPEAKER_20: The intent is to do outreach and engagement in June based on some of that guidance and engage with the community.
	[118]SPEAKER_20: We would be coming back for board consideration in July with an actual recommended action to the committee and then provided the committee advanced it at the board meeting.
	[119]SPEAKER_20: And we would begin implementation in August with full implementation in October.
	[120]SPEAKER_20: And with that, I will open it up.
	[121]SPEAKER_10: Perfect.
	[122]SPEAKER_10: Thank you very much for your presentation, Ms.
	[123]SPEAKER_10: Vallejoz.
	[124]SPEAKER_10: OK, I'm going to open it up for directors.
	[125]SPEAKER_10: Second Vice Chair Whitmore.
	[126]SPEAKER_13: Thank you for the presentation and the ease of absorbing the proposed changes.
	[127]SPEAKER_13: Erin, looking at the second proposal, the tiered approach, one of our commenters talked about the complications of keeping up with number of trips.
	[128]SPEAKER_13: Is that something that the new staff would be able to be
	[129]SPEAKER_13: Clearinghouse if you will tour you have one call to RTD instead of calling a taxi and a lift and an Uber That seems to be the most difficult part of that I'm just curious if you think our staff would be handling that in a way that would be handy for our customers It's definitely something I think we could assist with but I do think there would still be some burden on the customer for having some of that responsibility and
	[130]SPEAKER_20: Again, as I mentioned, as it stands today, there is just a very manual aspect of the program.
	[131]SPEAKER_20: And so while we're always looking at things to improve, I do think there would still be some responsibility that would live with the customer.
	[132]SPEAKER_09: Thank you.
	[133]SPEAKER_11: Thank you.
=END=
=START=
	[134]SPEAKER_11: And thank you for a very clear presentation, although I have one question of clarification.
	[135]SPEAKER_11: You talk about mirroring the existing service area.
	[136]SPEAKER_11: One of the things that appealed to me about this service was that, um, I don't think that the customers were restricted to the three quarter mile within a fixed route.
	[137]SPEAKER_11: Would that change with this?
	[138]SPEAKER_11: Any of these proposals or would it still be over the entire RTD service area?
	[139]SPEAKER_20: As the pro the proposals are presented, we are proposing mirroring the three quarter of a mile boundary that exists today for our accessory customers.
	[140]SPEAKER_11: Okay, that.
	[141]SPEAKER_11: That presents some problems for me, but we can talk about that later.
	[142]SPEAKER_11: Thank you.
	[143]SPEAKER_10: Secretary Nicholson.
	[144]SPEAKER_02: Thank you very much.
	[145]SPEAKER_02: I think I first want to echo and perhaps be a little bit more direct about what Director Catlin said.
	[146]SPEAKER_02: We have bus routes in this system that don't qualify for the ADA service, but they're bus routes anyway.
	[147]SPEAKER_02: There are commuter routes and I
	[148]SPEAKER_02: would not vote personally for a change that would cut off the people who live within three quarters of a mile of those routes.
	[149]SPEAKER_02: So at least for me, you guys want to get this through, you're going to need to change that because it's just a matter of basic equity.
	[150]SPEAKER_02: Otherwise, Peggy has like
	[151]SPEAKER_02: two places in our district that get service and that's just not reasonable.
	[152]SPEAKER_02: There are a lot of older folks that live up in those areas.
	[153]SPEAKER_02: I think the second issue that I have with what's being proposed is that the needs of
	[154]SPEAKER_02: you know, not call it rural, but mountainous Jefferson County when it comes to AOD are very different than the needs of central Denver.
	[155]SPEAKER_02: The trips I can get to most places that I need to go, you know, in terms of grocery stores, medical, et cetera, in a $15 Uber.
	[156]SPEAKER_02: You know, I don't think there's anywhere that you can get to for 15 bucks in Peggy's district or yours exactly.
	[157]SPEAKER_02: And so.
	[158]SPEAKER_02: But creating a system where the trip cap is 40 bucks doesn't work for me.
	[159]SPEAKER_02: Creating a trip cap where it's 15 bucks doesn't work for the people in her district.
	[160]SPEAKER_02: It strikes me that the right approach would be to have different levels of financial cap and different levels of trip cap to go along with them and let people pick.
	[161]SPEAKER_02: You want 60 trips at
	[162]SPEAKER_02: $15 per.
	[163]SPEAKER_02: Great.
	[164]SPEAKER_02: You want 50 trips at $20 per.
	[165]SPEAKER_02: Great.
	[166]SPEAKER_02: You want 40 trips at $30 per.
	[167]SPEAKER_02: Great.
	[168]SPEAKER_02: Depends on where you live.
	[169]SPEAKER_02: Depends on the types of trips you're going to be taking.
	[170]SPEAKER_02: But making people all fit into one size is either going to leave her people paying $20 for every single trip that they take.
	[171]SPEAKER_02: or it's going to put people in my district in a reduced number of rides because very few trips are going to cost $20 or $25.
	[172]SPEAKER_02: So those are my two pieces of feedback.
	[173]SPEAKER_02: Thank you.
	[174]SPEAKER_09: Thank you, Secretary.
	[175]SPEAKER_09: Director Ruscha.
	[176]SPEAKER_17: Thank you, Mr. Chair.
	[177]SPEAKER_17: So I just wanted to offer a bit of context.
	[178]SPEAKER_17: And the general manager, please interrupt me if I'm framing this wrong.
	[179]SPEAKER_17: But the conversation that we're having tonight is a framework of a potential path forward.
	[180]SPEAKER_17: And because of our OSS meeting went so long,
	[181]SPEAKER_17: we weren't able to get to through the discussion and that also I think impacted our ability to have some interim discussions.
	[182]SPEAKER_17: So I just want folks to you know keep keep an open mind to what staff is saying and definitely share that feedback because we're on a timeline but also just recognize that well and please if I'm saying the strong introduction but what is being presented is a concept framework and so we want so we'll get more feedback and then of course staff is going to be working very closely
	[183]SPEAKER_17: with our existing customers and advocacy organizations to make further refinements and give us some more stuff to look at.
	[184]SPEAKER_17: So I hope I didn't speak out of turn, but I just wanted to offer that for context.
	[185]SPEAKER_17: And I'm also listening and taking notes and I know staff is, so I would just urge if anyone has thoughts one way or another, please share them tonight since we are also on
	[186]SPEAKER_17: timeline with our existing partners and those contracts as well.
	[187]SPEAKER_17: Thank you.
	[188]SPEAKER_08: Thank you, Director.
	[189]SPEAKER_08: Director Larson.
	[190]SPEAKER_06: Thank you.
	[191]SPEAKER_06: I just have a question for Ms.
	[192]SPEAKER_06: Vallejos.
	[193]SPEAKER_06: So I saw I seen one of those slot these slides that it says there's
	[194]SPEAKER_06: In December of 2024, there were about 2,900 total active customers of access on demand.
	[195]SPEAKER_06: So there were 2,900 people, roughly, who used it in all of December.
	[196]SPEAKER_06: Is that right?
	[197]SPEAKER_20: I know that would be for the year, I believe.
	[198]SPEAKER_06: Let me just.
	[199]SPEAKER_06: OK.
	[200]SPEAKER_06: So 2,900 people used this service for the whole year.
	[201]SPEAKER_06: That's it.
	[202]SPEAKER_06: And so I guess what I'm trying to just understand is, if we were going to spend, say, $10 million or $15 million on 2,900 people,
	[203]SPEAKER_06: What do we think the equivalent is for just our regular riders?
	[204]SPEAKER_06: Do we have any guess?
	[205]SPEAKER_06: I mean, I know people have different ridership.
	[206]SPEAKER_06: If we have a million customers a year and it's the majority of our budget, I'm just trying to get a sense of how the per-person spend for a regular rider compares to the per-person spend for access on demand.
	[207]SPEAKER_20: Go ahead, Deborah.
	[208]SPEAKER_16: So if I can, Mr. Chair, and thank you, Director Larsen, for the question.
	[209]SPEAKER_16: I would not want us to conjecture and speculate.
	[210]SPEAKER_16: We could double back and give you those numbers.
	[211]SPEAKER_16: As we talk about, you use the term regular writer, you're talking about those that are using fixed route service.
	[212]SPEAKER_16: I just want to be clear and intentional with the language we're using going forward.
	[213]SPEAKER_16: So we need to assess that because it's a different level of service because with fixed route bus, we're not providing curb to curb service.
	[214]SPEAKER_16: And so we can double back and share that information with the board.
	[215]SPEAKER_16: But I think it wouldn't be fruitful for us to guesstimate because this is critically important.
	[216]SPEAKER_16: But as we come back and we have some guidance, we could provide that detailed information, if you will.
	[217]SPEAKER_16: Thank you.
	[218]SPEAKER_16: Thank you.
	[219]SPEAKER_10: Any other directors comments?
	[220]SPEAKER_09: Yeah, director Guzman.
	[221]SPEAKER_05: So I am concerned with the aligning with the ADA for the service area.
	[222]SPEAKER_05: District C is fairly blessed with
	[223]SPEAKER_05: multiple forms of transit and fixed route, where this is not a particular problem, but it is an issue in the suburban areas of the region.
	[224]SPEAKER_05: And it is highly concerning that we would restrict it so much where people would be left off of the system that live within a quarter mile of a commuter bus and still not be able to access this.
	[225]SPEAKER_05: I also think that as we proceed into the future after the demographers presentation to the finance and planning committee, a big concern will be our aging population in the region.
	[226]SPEAKER_05: And it's a, you know, somebody said that this is a drop in the bucket for our budget.
	[227]SPEAKER_05: Maybe right now, but eventually this is going to catch up with us, which is why we're having this conversation and access on demand and folks that are able to
	[228]SPEAKER_05: or out of need, utilize this system, need to be considered as humans first and how we serve them, which is our mission, right?
	[229]SPEAKER_05: They need connection as well.
	[230]SPEAKER_05: and not every one of them will be able to jump from a, jump, roll, walk, shuffle to a fixed route form of transportation to get them to their destinations.
	[231]SPEAKER_05: I have a question about the time on this, right?
	[232]SPEAKER_05: If it's mirroring regular service provision for the whole region,
	[233]SPEAKER_05: It kind of makes sense, but I would still be concerned for the reasons that emergencies don't happen on RTD schedule.
	[234]SPEAKER_05: And so somebody who already has a specific need for this type of transportation usage might need to go to the doctor.
	[235]SPEAKER_05: And what do they do if they're unable to drive?
	[236]SPEAKER_05: And regular bus service is not something that they can use because the buses aren't running a two o'clock in the morning emergency room visit is not unheard of and not uncommon in anybody's life.
	[237]SPEAKER_05: And yet what do we do to take care of those that are most vulnerable.
	[238]SPEAKER_05: So for me, I would really want to see some clarity around
	[239]SPEAKER_05: those two areas.
	[240]SPEAKER_05: I am frankly less concerned about minimal difference of cost savings.
	[241]SPEAKER_05: I mean, we're talking $5 million.
	[242]SPEAKER_05: That's not really the top priority for me on that part.
	[243]SPEAKER_05: right now it will eventually get there because this will likely continue to grow but I do want to make sure that we are basing ourselves in reality to serve the taxpayers needs and this is a need right this is not a desire as some of the other services we want to grow and create are this one is an actual need and so I want to be clear in my language on that and why I'm
	[244]SPEAKER_05: depositing these comments within that framework.
=END=
=START=
	[245]SPEAKER_05: So that would be my feedback.
	[246]SPEAKER_05: I'd like to see something a little bit different on those two things, the service area and the time for service.
	[247]SPEAKER_05: Thank you.
	[248]SPEAKER_05: Thank you, Director.
	[249]SPEAKER_05: Director Harwick.
	[250]SPEAKER_04: Well, thank you, Director Guzman.
	[251]SPEAKER_04: I'm just going to pretty much replicate everything you just said.
	[252]SPEAKER_04: I represent Arvada, and Arvada is actually the fastest growing aging population.
	[253]SPEAKER_04: However, I said that.
	[254]SPEAKER_04: I'm not sure I said it right.
	[255]SPEAKER_04: And a lot of our service is not in the areas where we have those aging people.
	[256]SPEAKER_04: So I'd really like to see
	[257]SPEAKER_04: just the boundary kept the same.
	[258]SPEAKER_04: I'm also really again with director Guzman keeping it as a full 24 seven.
	[259]SPEAKER_04: I just like I have a friend in a wheelchair and I just think about her trying like if she didn't live where she lived if she lived where I live she would have such a difficult time getting you know around her community and I won't just
	[260]SPEAKER_04: especially like if the service is outside of that time period, it's just precluding her life.
	[261]SPEAKER_04: And I know we don't all have these, the same abilities when we're riding the bus, but for a person with disability that's blind or in a wheelchair, I think that we can sort of extend them the grace that they deserve.
	[262]SPEAKER_04: I also would like to see the cap stay at 60.
	[263]SPEAKER_04: I think that, again, I know that it's a, you know, less than 10% of the population go above the 50 rides, but I think it's still like that's, we're giving them access to a free and full life.
	[264]SPEAKER_04: And I think if we are gonna go with the 650, I think that that to me is fine, but I also think that it would be imperative that we really,
	[265]SPEAKER_04: put out the live program and let let those writers know That there is another option like there's always with someone the other day she Lives about three miles away from where she works and you know She can afford it, but just barely and she didn't know about the live program So I think that there's we're missing an opportunity there specifically with these With these writers so and then my last one is just a request is it possible to get a map of
	[266]SPEAKER_04: like sort of like a density map of where AOD is like highly being used to sort of go with that, like thinking about, you know, West Jefferson County versus central Denver, just kind of see what that looks like.
	[267]SPEAKER_04: Obviously we want to anonymize the data, but I think it's sort of just would be interesting for us to know where the sort of hotspots of usage are.
	[268]SPEAKER_04: Thank you.
	[269]SPEAKER_09: Thank you, Director Harwick.
	[270]SPEAKER_09: Ms.
	[271]SPEAKER_04: Johnson.
	[272]SPEAKER_16: Yes, Director Harwick, if I understood you correctly, because I'm taking copious notes here, you are in support for all intents and purposes of what I hear, the modification of scenario one, keeping it at 60 trips with 650 and then one information relative to what the current usage is from a geographic vantage point.
	[273]SPEAKER_16: Okay, thank you.
	[274]SPEAKER_04: Thank you.
	[275]SPEAKER_04: Yeah, but I also want to keep the service areas the same as they are today.
	[276]SPEAKER_10: Yeah.
	[277]SPEAKER_10: Excellent.
	[278]SPEAKER_10: Director Nicholson, then Director Ruscha.
	[279]SPEAKER_02: Yeah, just a quick follow-up onto that.
	[280]SPEAKER_02: When it comes to go to Director Ruscha, my brain, I lost my train of thought for a second, so.
	[281]SPEAKER_10: Alright, Director Ruscha.
	[282]SPEAKER_17: Thank you for the red rover.
	[283]SPEAKER_17: I wasn't prepared.
	[284]SPEAKER_17: I went back to my notes.
	[285]SPEAKER_17: Okay.
	[286]SPEAKER_17: So, um, anyway, I, um, so I, some of this, um, feedback I did share with staff and I, um, I don't want to be repetitive, but I also just want to be really transparent with my, my colleagues, uh, because we haven't had this public conversation yet.
	[287]SPEAKER_17: And just high level, some of the things that I had shared was, you know, first of all, we don't want to put one proposal out before the community and get feedback like the one that we've had out for several months and then come back with something else that looks like less than what we originally proposed.
	[288]SPEAKER_17: And so one of the pain points that I had was just the idea of
	[289]SPEAKER_17: going up to 650 for the initial fare because that's not what we originally put out there.
	[290]SPEAKER_17: So one of the things that I urge is that if we put an offer on the table, so to speak, we don't take it back.
	[291]SPEAKER_17: That's kind of our baseline now.
	[292]SPEAKER_17: And another piece of feedback I had is that where something is not
	[293]SPEAKER_17: For every change we make, which essentially results in a reduction of a service of some kind or an increase in price, we really have to justify that line by line.
	[294]SPEAKER_17: So for example, if we decide that we are going to strictly align with service hours, then we have to justify it.
	[295]SPEAKER_17: It doesn't cost us any more money.
	[296]SPEAKER_17: It's not going to save us a penny.
	[297]SPEAKER_17: If somebody, you know, uses on demand,
	[298]SPEAKER_17: 15 or 20 minutes or an hour before fixed drought starts.
	[299]SPEAKER_17: Likewise, it's not costing us that I could see a lot of money, if any.
	[300]SPEAKER_17: for us to offer service outside of our general service area.
	[301]SPEAKER_17: I know that was flagged in the peer review.
	[302]SPEAKER_17: So I, because this idea has been on the table for so many months, I also want to caution us about the service area idea because if we restrict the service, that means there are people who currently are using AOD and they're going to lose it.
	[303]SPEAKER_17: So
	[304]SPEAKER_17: I, um, so that was just, I mean, that was just the, the kind of like high level, like, um, theme that I had in, in the feedback.
	[305]SPEAKER_17: Um, and also, you know, I'm going back to the, uh, initial like a fair, um, we also want to be really careful about what we think.
	[306]SPEAKER_17: is inexpensive because it's really relative.
	[307]SPEAKER_17: So for some folks using the service and they have like a fixed income or very limited income, if we even do you know 450 which would be parity with excess ride and I think I could accept that but like say we go up to 650 or we do this tiered system
	[308]SPEAKER_17: then for some folks, they are not going to be able to write or they're going to be choosing, do I get to the doctor or do I buy food for tonight?
	[309]SPEAKER_17: So I just wanted to put that out there.
	[310]SPEAKER_17: And finally, well, actually, I'll stop there.
	[311]SPEAKER_17: I concurred with what a lot of other directors said in terms of keeping the program as is as much as we can.
	[312]SPEAKER_17: I think that, but I also just want to commend staff, you know, because we are at a much different place than where we were several months ago.
	[313]SPEAKER_17: This is a totally different conversation.
	[314]SPEAKER_17: really slashing this program.
	[315]SPEAKER_17: And staff did a lot of work and we spent several months, we almost voted on this a few months ago.
	[316]SPEAKER_17: And they listened to us as directors and they listened to community because as you know, we've had hundreds of public comments over several months on this.
	[317]SPEAKER_17: And they said, okay, we can take a timeout, we can reassess, we can get some different data, we can, you know, kind of present a new paradigm.
	[318]SPEAKER_17: So again, what's before us today is a sketch of ideas, the feedback is good.
	[319]SPEAKER_17: But I really do want to commend staff for listening and working with us in partnership.
	[320]SPEAKER_17: So thank you.
	[321]SPEAKER_17: And thank you.
	[322]SPEAKER_08: Thank you, Director Ruscha.
	[323]SPEAKER_08: Director Nicholson.
	[324]SPEAKER_02: Thank you.
	[325]SPEAKER_02: Is there any step during enrollment of AAR and AOD where we ask people if they are enrolled in the live program and ask them, hey, we're taking 14 other pieces of documentation from you.
	[326]SPEAKER_02: I mean, AAR is remarkably complicated to sign up for.
	[327]SPEAKER_02: Is there any part of that process where we try to enroll them in the live program as well?
	[328]SPEAKER_02: And then I have a quick follow up.
	[329]SPEAKER_20: I will have to find out about that as part of the process.
	[330]SPEAKER_20: Um, and we will confirm if that is, you know, how that is handled as, as part of the process.
	[331]SPEAKER_02: Yeah.
	[332]SPEAKER_02: So, yeah, as a, as a first thing I would say that since we're going to be updating this to offer the, the live discount and, and not make it free, uh, it should be required as part of the process.
	[333]SPEAKER_02: If you're going through to sign up for AOD or AAR, some point in that process to set, to ask someone to affirm that they are either already signed up or,
	[334]SPEAKER_02: haven't signed up or whatever, and then give them the opportunity to make it super easy.
	[335]SPEAKER_02: Because we only have 15,000 people signed up for live right now, and we have 180 something thousand boardings every day.
	[336]SPEAKER_02: And I think only about half the people in AOD are currently signed up for, or AAR currently signed up for live.
	[337]SPEAKER_02: So definitely something I'd like to see there.
	[338]SPEAKER_02: The second thing, I want to echo what Director Ruscha said about the effect on people who
	[339]SPEAKER_02: are low income to having these fares, but I want to take it from the other side, which is if you don't have a lot of money and you need to get around to a lot of places, then 40 trips maybe, or whatever the number ends up being, not nearly enough in a way that someone who makes more money
	[340]SPEAKER_02: can probably have some discretionary to be like, oh, I've run out of trips.
	[341]SPEAKER_02: I can afford to take an extra three or five or whatever.
	[342]SPEAKER_02: So I'm not sure that that needs to be fit into the policy here.
	[343]SPEAKER_02: I'm wary about trying to do too much too quickly.
	[344]SPEAKER_02: But I do think we need to get a report from you after, I don't know, six months a year that looks at how many trips are people on live using?
	[345]SPEAKER_02: Are they maxing out?
	[346]SPEAKER_02: Or are we seeing sort of the same curve?
	[347]SPEAKER_02: from live users as we do from regular users right now, and that might inform us to take action a year from now to try to offer the right service for people who need it.
	[348]SPEAKER_02: Some live people make decent incomes.
	[349]SPEAKER_02: Some of them are literally broke, and we need to recognize that those two groups of people have very different lived experiences.
	[350]SPEAKER_10: Thank you, Secretary.
	[351]SPEAKER_10: Ms.
	[352]SPEAKER_10: Johnson?
	[353]SPEAKER_16: Yes, thank you very much, Director Nicholson.
	[354]SPEAKER_16: Mr. Chair, thank you, Director Nicholson, for the comments.
	[355]SPEAKER_16: And what I will say in reference to your request, it appeared to be a directive, but I would just offer this up to you that once we collectively agree upon the path forward in this Board acts, we can then assess what might be most prudent, because at this point in time, we don't know what we don't know.
	[356]SPEAKER_16: And relative to what you just asked, I can't commit to that without knowing what we intend to do.
	[357]SPEAKER_16: So I just had to say that for the record.
	[358]SPEAKER_16: because it seemed as if Ms.
	[359]SPEAKER_16: Baleos was giving direction, and I don't think that's appropriate at this juncture.
	[360]SPEAKER_10: Thank you.
	[361]SPEAKER_10: Thank you.
	[362]SPEAKER_10: Ms.
	[363]SPEAKER_10: Director Larson.
	[364]SPEAKER_10: Thank you.
	[365]SPEAKER_06: I was just kind of doing some stuff on my calculator.
	[366]SPEAKER_06: And so if we only have 3,000 people who use excess on demand, I mean, it seems like the disabled population
	[367]SPEAKER_06: You know, it might be 300,000 people in Denver or something, you know, much, much larger.
	[368]SPEAKER_06: Do we, how do, how confident are we of our projection that it'll stay at around, I mean, or, or however much we think it'll increase?
	[369]SPEAKER_06: I mean, what do we think the total number of active users might become and why won't it become, you know, several, many multiples more than 3,000 or so?
	[370]SPEAKER_16: First, if I may, just for everyone's identification, you probably have heard this over the course of several months in the public comment discussions.
	[371]SPEAKER_16: When we talk about access on demand, currently as it's configured, recognizing that we're using private entities, transportation network companies in particular, not all of the vehicles are outfitted to be wheelchair accessible.
	[372]SPEAKER_16: So that's a critical element when we're talking about the population because there's different disabilities that individuals have.
	[373]SPEAKER_16: Some may have cognitive, somebody may be using a mobility device, which can't be accommodated going forward.
	[374]SPEAKER_16: So I just wanted to provide that context prior to Ms.
	[375]SPEAKER_16: Vallejo's answering the question because that has not been factored into this conversation this evening.
	[376]SPEAKER_16: And I believe it's a germane point.
	[377]SPEAKER_16: Thank you, Director.
	[378]SPEAKER_20: And I don't think I need to add anything that was really exactly what I was going to say.
	[379]SPEAKER_20: Not everyone is able to use the access on demand service that is eligible for excessive ride.
	[380]SPEAKER_20: Other is a difference there.
	[381]SPEAKER_06: Can I just follow up?
	[382]SPEAKER_06: But I mean, surely many more people than 3000 in the metro area would be eligible though.
	[383]SPEAKER_20: Well, and again, we have continued continue to see substantial growth.
	[384]SPEAKER_20: in the number of customers that are beginning to use the service.
	[385]SPEAKER_20: Again, the trips that we are seeing continue to grow even into this year, so we are seeing quite significant growth still.
	[386]SPEAKER_10: Thank you.
	[387]SPEAKER_10: Thank you.
	[388]SPEAKER_10: Thank you.
	[389]SPEAKER_10: Any further questions, comments?
	[390]SPEAKER_10: Ms.
	[391]SPEAKER_10: Johnson and Ms.
	[392]SPEAKER_10: Vallejoz, thank you very much for the presentation.
	[393]SPEAKER_10: I hope this was helpful feedback for going forward.
	[394]SPEAKER_10: So thank you.
	[395]SPEAKER_16: Yes, thank you, Mr. Chair.
	[396]SPEAKER_16: This was in the sense that we do have some guidance now.
	[397]SPEAKER_16: We know what we need to do as we do further outreach.
	[398]SPEAKER_16: So thank you all very much for the opportunity.
	[399]SPEAKER_16: And when we come back in July with a recommended action, hopefully we can all rally around that, recognizing the public comments that we heard in the direction in which you provide it.
	[400]SPEAKER_16: Thank you.
	[401]SPEAKER_05: Thank you.
	[402]SPEAKER_05: Director Guzman.
	[403]SPEAKER_05: Will that recommended action be going through operation safety and security?
	[404]SPEAKER_10: Ms.
	[405]SPEAKER_10: Johnson.
	[406]SPEAKER_16: Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Chair.
	[407]SPEAKER_16: And thank you, Director Guzman.
	[408]SPEAKER_16: I apologize for the question.
	[409]SPEAKER_16: Most definitely we will go through the committee procedure.
	[410]SPEAKER_16: The only reason why this didn't happen because it's time sensitive.
	[411]SPEAKER_16: So thank you.
	[412]SPEAKER_10: Thank you very much.
	[413]SPEAKER_10: All right.
	[414]SPEAKER_10: Well, thank you again, Ms.
	[415]SPEAKER_10: Filaios.
	[416]SPEAKER_10: All right.
	[417]SPEAKER_10: Moving on.
	[418]SPEAKER_10: Thank you, directors, for the questions and conversations.
	[419]SPEAKER_10: We're going to be moving to our committee reports, not, not to be the, the time police or anything.
	[420]SPEAKER_10: We are at 8 31 PM and we've been going at this since 3 30.
	[421]SPEAKER_10: If committee reports could be less than a minute, that'd be greatly appreciated.
	[422]SPEAKER_10: Audit committee chair music.
	[423]SPEAKER_10: What would you like to share?
	[424]SPEAKER_13: Thank you, Mr. Chair.
	[425]SPEAKER_13: We did not meet in April or May.
	[426]SPEAKER_13: Our next meeting is June 12, 2025.
	[427]SPEAKER_13: That concludes my report.
	[428]SPEAKER_10: Thank you.
	[429]SPEAKER_10: Thank you very much.
	[430]SPEAKER_10: Finance and Planning Committee Report, Committee Chair Guzman.
	[431]SPEAKER_05: Thank you, Mr. Chair.
	[432]SPEAKER_05: The Finance and Planning Committee met Tuesday, May 13th, discussed a handful of items, received a report from our state demographer, which was really awesome.
	[433]SPEAKER_05: Directors are reminded to email the board office if you had any follow-up questions or things specific to your sub-district so we can send that all at once.
	[434]SPEAKER_05: to receive an answer to the whole board.
	[435]SPEAKER_05: Received an update from DOTI for the East Colfax BRT and three items came out of committee, which will be before us tonight.
	[436]SPEAKER_05: Just want to thank the committee for all of the hard work and the next meeting for the finance and planning committee is scheduled for Tuesday, June 10th at 5.30 PM.
	[437]SPEAKER_05: Thank you.
	[438]SPEAKER_10: Thank you, Director.
	[439]SPEAKER_10: Committee Chair Ruscio or Committee Chair Harwick, what would you like to share for OSS?
	[440]SPEAKER_17: I'll take it, sir.
	[441]SPEAKER_17: Thank you.
	[442]SPEAKER_17: So we met remotely on Wednesday, May 14th.
	[443]SPEAKER_17: We gaveled in at 5.34 p.m.
	[444]SPEAKER_17: and wrapped up at 9.44 p.m.
	[445]SPEAKER_17: We had extensive public comments.
	[446]SPEAKER_17: The most I've ever seen at any OSS meeting.
	[447]SPEAKER_17: That was great.
	[448]SPEAKER_17: Come visit us anytime.
	[449]SPEAKER_17: It's always nice to know that people are listening to our podcast and by that I mean our YouTube channel.
	[450]SPEAKER_17: But two major items that went on the consent calendar for tonight's meeting is the 2025-2028 Title VI program update, just ensuring that we stay in compliance with federal law, civil rights protections, and meet the needs of our customers, as well as the Allied Universal Security Services Contract Extension.
	[451]SPEAKER_17: FNP authorized a budget transfer, which had no financial impact.
	[452]SPEAKER_17: It was just moving from one department to another.
	[453]SPEAKER_17: And then we filed that up with a vote to extend that contract for another year with the cost of up to just a little over 22 million.
	[454]SPEAKER_17: And we did have four discussion items, two of which were heard.
	[455]SPEAKER_17: So we had the Vision Zero update from GM CEO Johnson.
	[456]SPEAKER_17: As you might recall, we passed a Vision Zero resolution last year, and so that planning process is underway.
	[457]SPEAKER_17: We had a customer communications update.
	[458]SPEAKER_17: Stuart Summers led an excellent presentation, discussing how we handle communications, some tech updates, customer service aspects.
	[459]SPEAKER_17: real-time information and service alerts and things like that.
	[460]SPEAKER_17: Unfortunately, we did hit our four-hour mark before we could finish our agenda items, and even though the nuggets weren't playing, folks wanted to go, and we were tired.
	[461]SPEAKER_17: So we moved the on-demand item to the nice meeting, which we just heard, and then we'll be hearing Paratransit Legacy Customer Protection's proposal next month.
	[462]SPEAKER_17: So for those of you who have been tracking what we're doing with paratransit, I strongly encourage you to come visit us at OSSX month and weigh in so we get your feedback before we come back with something more final.
	[463]SPEAKER_17: Our next meeting is Wednesday, June 11th at 5.30, same time, same place, online or on the phone.
	[464]SPEAKER_17: Thank you.
	[465]SPEAKER_10: Thank you, committee chair.
	[466]SPEAKER_10: Uh, now to for performance committee chair Guzman.
	[467]SPEAKER_10: I get it.
	[468]SPEAKER_05: Thank you, Mr. Chair.
	[469]SPEAKER_05: Performance committee met Monday, May 12th, 2025.
	[470]SPEAKER_05: Uh, I, I, the, the committee chair presented a draft proposal that I had worked on previously with vice chair Gucci and Ritter for the 2025 general manager, CEO performance assessment form and process that needed to be updated to seek input from the committee and other directors.
	[471]SPEAKER_05: to find a way forward for the rest of the year based on the current 2025 general manager CO short term goals and the respective adjustments made to the scoring points based on our votes in January.
	[472]SPEAKER_05: I've received some feedback.
	[473]SPEAKER_05: I continue to invite directors to submit the feedback.
	[474]SPEAKER_05: If you have not reviewed that meeting, please do so.
	[475]SPEAKER_05: And any questions you may have, please email me or call me.
	[476]SPEAKER_05: I am happy to engage in that conversation.
	[477]SPEAKER_05: Of course, we are doing that with participation and a lot of communication with the general manager CEO, Deborah Johnson.
	[478]SPEAKER_05: The next meeting of the performance committee is scheduled for June 2, 2025 at 8.30 a.m.
	[479]SPEAKER_05: I really want to encourage all of you, directors, to please participate in that meeting.
	[480]SPEAKER_05: Two reasons.
	[481]SPEAKER_05: One, we are going to receive.
	[482]SPEAKER_05: I hope I don't get this wrong because I don't have my work plan in front of me, but the employee survey results in the beginning of that meeting.
	[483]SPEAKER_05: And then we will adjourn into executive session.
	[484]SPEAKER_05: for the second quarterly one-on-one opportunity with our general manager CEO.
	[485]SPEAKER_05: And that is part of our contracted agreement with the general manager CEO to receive information from her and provide feedback regarding personnel matters.
	[486]SPEAKER_05: Additionally, the performance committee is set to have a second meeting in June because of that quarterly check-in.
	[487]SPEAKER_05: The second meeting is planned, I believe, for June 23rd at 8.30 a.m.
	[488]SPEAKER_05: And that is in order to do a deep dive into our community and customer surveys, which align with our community value and customer excellent strategic initiatives.
	[489]SPEAKER_05: And I would again encourage all directors to participate in that meeting as well.
	[490]SPEAKER_05: which is the overview of the current status of the agency's surveys and where we're at with regard to public.
	[491]SPEAKER_05: It will inform the process for setting goals and priorities for the 2026 year, which we are also doing all at the same time.
	[492]SPEAKER_05: So prioritizing what is important for our customers, the survey reports are a great opportunity to engage with direct feedback from our constituents in all areas of the agency.
	[493]SPEAKER_05: I do believe a little birdie has told me on one of the buses that these should be really positive discussions.
	[494]SPEAKER_05: So if you need more than that invitation, please signal tonight and I will call you and email you and hound you to be on these meetings because I think they're really important for all of us.
=END=
=START=
	[495]SPEAKER_05: So if you need more than that invitation, please signal tonight and I will call you and email you and hound you to be on these meetings because I think they're really important for all of us.
	[496]SPEAKER_05: Thank you.
	[497]SPEAKER_10: Thank you committee chair goes on.
	[498]SPEAKER_10: All right, moving on.
	[499]SPEAKER_10: We're going to do the approval of board meeting minutes and committee reports, the board and committee meeting minutes were included in the board packet.
	[500]SPEAKER_10: Are there any corrections from the board for the minutes to be approved this evening.
	[501]SPEAKER_10: Any corrections.
	[502]SPEAKER_10: All right.
	[503]SPEAKER_10: Unless there's objection to considering the minutes all the same time, my please have a motion to approve the minutes for the following meetings.
	[504]SPEAKER_10: The April 9th, 2025 operation safety and security committee, the April 29th, 2025 board meeting, the May 12th, 2025 performance committee, May 13th, 2025 finance and planning committee.
	[505]SPEAKER_10: May 14th, 2025, Operation Safety and Security Committee, and then May 22nd, 2025, Executive Committee.
	[506]SPEAKER_10: So moved, Guzman.
	[507]SPEAKER_10: I have the Guzman.
	[508]SPEAKER_09: Second.
	[509]SPEAKER_09: Second.
	[510]SPEAKER_10: I'm going to give it to Guzman.
	[511]SPEAKER_10: So I heard Director Guzman as the mover and Director Guzman as the second.
	[512]SPEAKER_10: Is there any discussion on this motion?
	[513]SPEAKER_10: Okay.
	[514]SPEAKER_10: Seeing none, I'll now call the vote.
	[515]SPEAKER_10: Are there any no votes on this action?
	[516]SPEAKER_10: It'll pass 14, zero, and one absent.
	[517]SPEAKER_10: Excellent.
	[518]SPEAKER_10: All right.
	[519]SPEAKER_10: Moving on, it will be our chairs report.
	[520]SPEAKER_10: Due to the late hour, I will be quoting my principal and saying, I am giving you all the gift of time.
	[521]SPEAKER_10: And all I can say with my chair's report is we will have a border treat on June 7th talking about our 2026 priorities for the agency.
	[522]SPEAKER_10: Again, directors, hopefully you all can make that.
	[523]SPEAKER_10: It'll be a very healthy discussion, a very hearty discussion, I guarantee.
	[524]SPEAKER_10: But please make sure you have that marked down on your calendars.
	[525]SPEAKER_10: Thank you.
	[526]SPEAKER_07: Did you want to remind everybody about the survey we sent you?
	[527]SPEAKER_10: Of course, thank you.
	[528]SPEAKER_10: And of course, directors, you'll see in my weekly update, there was a survey that might have been passed too.
	[529]SPEAKER_10: And if you've not filled out that survey, please do so.
	[530]SPEAKER_10: Thank you for the directors who did fill it in.
	[531]SPEAKER_10: So that's okay.
	[532]SPEAKER_10: If we could get that in by Monday morning, that'd be excellent.
	[533]SPEAKER_10: I'll include that in my weekly update though.
	[534]SPEAKER_10: Thank you.
	[535]SPEAKER_10: I'll give it now over to you, GMCO Johnson.
	[536]SPEAKER_16: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair, and by to recognize the lateness of the hour, I just have a couple of elements that I'll share with you that are in alignment with our activities and strategic endeavors since our last board meeting on Tuesday, April 29th.
	[537]SPEAKER_16: One notable aspect is the legislative conference held by the American Public Transportation Association from May 18th through the 20th.
	[538]SPEAKER_16: In Washington DC, just for everyone's edification, this annual conference is an opportunity for public transportation industry professionals across the nation to visit Washington DC and connect with policymakers, implementers, and their staffs.
	[539]SPEAKER_16: The conference helps educate and inform active members on important federal legislation and policy initiatives and affords an unparalleled opportunity to shape the industry's positions in federal advocacy agenda.
	[540]SPEAKER_16: I along with directors of Keith Chandler and Guchin Ritter and government relations officer Michael Davies attended conference sessions and meetings with members of Colorado's congressional delegation and their staffs.
	[541]SPEAKER_16: While chairing an APTA committee meeting on Sunday, May 8th, I personally engaged with Tariq Bakari who is the acting administrator of the Federal Transit Administration who shared his views and inputs as it relates to public transit as well as the importance of federal and local partnerships.
	[542]SPEAKER_16: Just yesterday, Tuesday, May 27th, I along with members of my team met with individuals representing the Alliance to Transform Transportation.
	[543]SPEAKER_16: As you may be aware, it's a coalition of groups on transit related matters in Colorado.
	[544]SPEAKER_16: Alliance representatives in attendance included Executive Director of the Colorado Public Interest Research Group, Danny Katz, or Co-Purg, as we refer to it, Jill Lockenture, Executive Director of the Denver Streets Partnership, Portia Prescott, President of the Rocky Mountain NAACP,
	[545]SPEAKER_16: uh, branch, uh, the state conference representing Colorado, Montana, and Wyoming, Dennis Hawkins representing the amalgamated transit union 10 01.
	[546]SPEAKER_16: Matt Fromer representing Transportation and Land Use, well, he is the Transportation and Land Use Policy Manager from the Southwest Energy Efficiency Project.
	[547]SPEAKER_16: The meeting really was focused on Alliance's vision for transit in the Denver region.
	[548]SPEAKER_16: As you know, they have been very vocal in which they're seeking to increase funding for transit in the Denver region by $420 million per year.
	[549]SPEAKER_16: to bolster the frequency and availability of transit services in the metro area.
	[550]SPEAKER_16: From RTD's perspective, questions were posed relative to how that $420 million figure was derived and they explained how that came about with the work they had done with the third party entity.
	[551]SPEAKER_16: of very bare bones relative to providing some information.
	[552]SPEAKER_16: And then we talked about the agency's focus, which all of you are very well aware that we are laser focused on asset renewal, state of good repair, and rightsizing transit service and alignment with RTD's branded comprehensive operational analysis being the system optimization plan.
	[553]SPEAKER_16: Related to personal security, as was recently reported, RTD experienced a 60% reduction in security-related calls for service, as well as a three-year decrease in reports of criminal activities between 2022 and 2025 at Denver Union Station.
	[554]SPEAKER_16: The decrease is representative of concerted efforts to restore and maintain a welcoming transit environment within the critical multi-modal transit hub, and following a collaborative and multifaceted strategy aimed at enhancing
	[555]SPEAKER_16: personal safety and security through crime prevention through environmental design methodologies.
	[556]SPEAKER_16: This effort would have not have been a success without the commitment of numerous agency employees as well as support from the city and county of Denver.
	[557]SPEAKER_16: It's police department, the downtown Denver partnerships, Sage hospitality, the lower Denver neighborhood association, as well as several local businesses and downtown Denver residents.
	[558]SPEAKER_16: Fair enforcement has also increased in recent months, which is the result of RTDs growing ranks of sworn police officers
	[559]SPEAKER_16: haven't been trained to perform this function alongside the contracted team that we have in security with Allied Universal personnel who had primarily been responsible for this responsibility.
	[560]SPEAKER_16: I look forward to sharing additional details regarding the impacts of these efforts during the June Performance Committee, which you heard Committee Chair Guzman reference.
	[561]SPEAKER_16: When I along with staff will present data related to annual customer community and employee surveys that have recently concluded.
	[562]SPEAKER_16: On a related note, the agency has proactively increased its transit police officer presence at Denver Union Station and across the agency's downtown Denver sector to support the personal safety and security of customers and visitors attending major events and activity, notably as we know, while we're no longer in the hockey playoffs and NBA, but
	[563]SPEAKER_16: people had a welcoming experience in and around our facilities.
	[564]SPEAKER_16: And RTD PD had increased patrols at Denver Union Station and bus stops and rail stations, the high of, before the high profile events, which included the playoff games I just referenced.
	[565]SPEAKER_16: And this coincides with increasing Denver police patrols throughout the downtown area.
	[566]SPEAKER_16: And RTD and DPD are working closely to collaborate to support enhanced safety for the traveling public.
	[567]SPEAKER_16: And moreover, data and metrics related to personal safety and security are now conveniently located on the recently created security related metrics page, and we've actually showcased that on other social media channels as well.
	[568]SPEAKER_16: As it relates to our customer excellence in relation to the strategic priorities of customer excellence and employee ownership, I shared yesterday with the board the last of the 31 light rail speed restrictions put into place last year on the DH
	[569]SPEAKER_16: and E and R lines was lifted as of yesterday morning.
	[570]SPEAKER_16: I want to give a special shout out to our maintenance of way teams that have done yeoman's work.
	[571]SPEAKER_16: The final speed restriction, which was approximately 400 feet in southbound segment north of south more station and was removed after crews completed those repairs.
	[572]SPEAKER_16: Keeping in mind those rigorous restrictions were put into place due to the fact that we enhanced our inspections of track
	[573]SPEAKER_16: back in May 2024 as an enhanced focus on maintaining the agency's assets and a state of good repair.
=END=